# Voyager 1
NASA originally planned to send two spacecraft past Jupiter, Saturn and Pluto and two other probes past Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune. Budgetary reasons forced the agency to scale back its plans, but NASA still got a lot out of the two Voyagers it launched. Voyager 2 flew past Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune, while Voyager 1 focused on Jupiter and Saturn.

Voyager 1 is the first spacecraft to reach interstellar space. It originally was launched in 1977 to explore the outer planets in our solar system. However, it has remained operational long past expectations and continues to send information about its journeys back to Earth. 

Recognizing that the Voyagers would fly out of the solar system, NASA authorized the production of two records to be placed on board the spacecraft. Sounds ranging from whale calls to the music of Chuck Berry were placed on board, as well as spoken greetings in 55 languages.

## Objective
Recreation of the Voyager 1 probe path in an n-body system.

## Dependencies To Build
* OpenMPI # *sudo apt-get install openmpi-bin* [For multiprocess high-performance computing]. (https://www.open-mpi.org/)
* Python 3 (to create 3D plots)
* Imageio # *pip install imageio* (to create gif from plots)
* Matplotlip # *pip install matplotlib* (to create plots and 3D plots)

## Compilation and execution

1.- Download or clone this git in the machine you are gonna be working.

2.- This project needs to be compiled. Open a terminal in the folder that contains the GNUMakefile file to run it and compile with the ***$ make*** command. This will generate the ***voyager*** executable to run. (The name can be changed inside the file GNUMakefile in the variable ***PROGRAM***

3.- Use the command ***$ mpiexec -n 'number of process' ./voyager > output.dat*** to execute the progarm. This will create a file containing all the calculations.

4.- Finally, to generate the folder with the images and the gif file use the command ***$ python3 view3D.py***. All the files will be on the *data* folder.

## Initial Conditions

This table contains the initial conditions of the system Voyager 1 traveled on its path to reach the Jupiter and Saturn flyby on September 6, 1977 (each at time 00:00:00 in TDB). The data was generated by JPL's HORIZONS at https://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/horizons.cgi

|      Body|            Calendar Date (TDB)|          Mass|                      X|                      Y|                      Z|                     VX|                     VY|                     VZ|
|----------|-------------------------------|--------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|
| Voyager 1| A.D. 1977-Sep-06 00:00:00.0000|        815 KG|  9.679318511236246E-01| -2.820995554599118E-01|  1.711150759918104E-04|  6.683337106329786E-03|  2.202624005714421E-02|  4.219086960345452E-04|
|       Sun| A.D. 1977-Sep-06 00:00:00.0000|  1.989E+30 KG|  0.000000000000000E+00|  0.000000000000000E+00|  0.000000000000000E+00|  0.000000000000000E+00|  0.000000000000000E+00|  0.000000000000000E+00|
|     Earth| A.D. 1977-Sep-06 00:00:00.0000|  5.972E+24 KG|  9.669671832709390E-01| -2.844786657291295E-01| -6.609528519874997E-06|  4.582059728152447E-03|  1.643980739564340E-02|  1.118295849347408E-06|
|      Mars| A.D. 1977-Sep-06 00:00:00.0000|  6.418E+23 KG|  8.799623964268790E-01|  1.190938187923092E+00|  3.265678417334753E-03| -1.071986729891041E-02|  9.504878842410917E-03|  4.630444821095596E-04|
|   Jupiter| A.D. 1977-Sep-06 00:00:00.0000|  1.898E+27 KG|  6.999326081243649E-01|  5.049283072371614E+00| -3.644399778462678E-02| -7.571102416462870E-03|  1.388338105435677E-03|  1.638529656063099E-04|
|    Saturn| A.D. 1977-Sep-06 00:00:00.0000|  5.683E+26 KG| -7.193671488475085E+00|  5.707461816854215E+00|  1.860848025025673E-01| -3.774981629411074E-03| -4.386006860459909E-03|  2.268855123611212E-04|

Given these, we are using Astronomical Units (149,597,870,700 m) to measure the distances between the planets and also to define the area of the solar system that we are going to be recreating. 

We are using a three-dimensional space with an area of 20 au^3 with the sun as the center of the system definded by the variables Ax, Ay, Az, Bx, By, Bz.

## Results
Given the results obtained in the output.dat file and executing the view3D.py program, in addition to the images, a gif file with the animation of the trajectory is generated. In one of the links you can see the results but in video format, generated using [clipchamp](https://clipchamp.com/en/)

[Voyager 1 gif](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XGsysHu9iMY1IA8IsphHH8VulyaBU5TM/view?usp=sharing)

[Voyager 1 mp4](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1U5LSzTJcW6QH7TvU_6Hveru6H2PIw_OU/view?usp=sharing)
